the Netanyahu government has come out
with a list of dos and don'ts for
journalists covering its war on Gaza
document is available on the government
website it says media are forbidden from
reporting on eight topics without prior
approval from the military sensor office
the order prohibits publishing details
about weapons used by Israel or seized
by Hamas ITB Bar's reporting on Hamas
targets hitting strategic infrastructure
including power and gas plants military
bases and Transportation depos details
of War cabinet meetings are also not to
be published without the military's
approval AA alar is a columnist at haret
newspaper joins us live from Tel Aviv so
first of all what impact do these rules
have on the
coverage well Sam uh these rules are not
very effective since uh uh from my
experience I can tell you that uh first
of all we we know what to do in order
not to undermine the uh attempts of the
military to fight terrorism and uh not
to help the enemy to uh Target
Israel uh strategic units so uh it's
not it's not needed because every
Israeli journalist is either a veteran
so
uh maybe some of them are graduates even
of the Secret Service of the mosad of
unit age2 200 uh and they know the rules
and uh um since they have been part of
the this uh uh
apparatus they know that they don't want
to harm their neighbor who is now uh
based in Gaza their brother or their son
who is now based in Gaza so uh these
rules are not actually new the the
problem is how much concern is there
then over self
censorship well that's that's something
that I am personally very concerned
about because at the time of war the uh
journalists become more soldiers part of
the IDF or part of uh the Secret Service
and they more concerned about the uh
security and about the viewers and the
viewers don't want them to be so to
speak El jazer that is doing a very
balanced reporting from both from
Gaza and and from Israel where the Hamas
is hitting civilians uh the the Israeli
journalist or editor knows what his
clients want him to do so he will not
dare uh reporting about something that
may undermine the attempts to get the
captives out or to Target the
Palestinian strategic
units what does that translate into for
coverage of the human suffering that's
going on in this
conflict are Israeli seeing that
Yes actually uh I want I watch Al jazer
and I watch CNN but most Israelis that
watch the Israeli networks or read the
the Israeli
newspapers they believe that there is
only one victim there is only one
narrative in the narrative is starts and
ends at October 7th and this gives
Israel a permit to do whatever it likes
or needs to do um the the thing is that
uh AA sorry for jumping in but what
about social media hasn't that changed
that sort of ability that you know
traditional media can have to present
only one
side yeah Israelis who are bothering to
follow the war through the social media
Facebook yeah they they are exposed to
this but they don't like to do this uh
you need some you need to understand
that it's very different now it's I I
still remember the atmosphere here
during the Six Days War and the yipo war
and the Lebanon two Wars it's very
different uh the the footage that the
Israelis saw on October 7th and since
then the stories of the captives uh they
turn also the journalist from doing
balanc honest reporting uh to Israeli
Patriots and if you add to this that we
are not allowed to go into Gaza the only
way to get into Gaza and to see and
report and offer footage is to follow
the military spokesperson who takes the
Israeli journalists as well as lucky
Foreign Press to where he wants them to
go to show them the tunnels the peers uh
to speak to the offices that they pick
up they cannot meet Palestinian until
today I didn't seen any Israeli networks
an interview with a Palestinian woman
child or old people in in the camps uh
and and the reason is you know that this
is not not what the customers want to
see and the media doesn't want to uh
antagonize their clients well luckily
you do have another choice you can watch
us here in Al jazer will continue to
bring you coverage from Gaza as well as
from the Israeli side of the Border
thank you so much AKA alar har
columnist thank you sir